Let's talk about the first approach, handwriting your JSON serialization code,
or manual manufacture, to add some alliteration to this anti-pattern.
The best way to explain how to do this and for you to
see the problems with the manual, plain Java JSON approach is to demo it to you.
So I'm going to write some code that is going to use string
concatenation in order to produce JSON.
In order to keep the demos simple and consistent,
they will all produce the same loan application document
that we wrote by hand in module 1.
And remember, this is a demo of an anti-pattern for producing JSON.
I'm known to be doing things wrong, a lot.
So let's demo the first approach to producing JSON.
This is the manual manufacture approach.
What we've got here is a simple bit of code where we have
an example loan application document.
So these are the same details as we saw in module 1.
Our loan application is by Mrs Joan Smith.
It's to build an extension to a house.
She's looking for 10000 pounds.
And, it's for a 5 year loan.
And she's got a few different jobs going on at the
same time or sources of income.
Now, in order to produce that with our string formats,
I've got this toJsonString method here that we're going to implement in
order to convert that loanApplication into a JSON string.
So, the first thing we want to do is use the Java string formatter.
And we want to bring in a format string.
So I'm going to just copy and paste these strings because otherwise
we're going to be here all day writing this out by hand.
There we go.
And so that's a format string that contains the name,
the purposeOfLoan, the loanDetails, and the jobs.
And what we're going to do here is pass in specific values that correspond to
the fields that we're going to use in our format string.
So loanApplication.
getName, loanApplication.
getPurposeOfLoan, and then the loanDetails, and then finally, the Jobs.
Now the latter two fields here are things that I also need to
convert to JSON values themselves because the loanDetails object
is going to be a subfield as well.
So,
let's create another method here called toJsonString
that takes the loanDetails object.
And for that, I'm again going to use string formatting.
So I'm going to format the amount, the startDate, the endDate, blah, blah, blah.
And, here we need to take the amount, then the startDate,
and finally the endDate.
Lovely stuff.
And what we're going to see is these %s' and %g's in the format strings are
going to have the values parsed in from these parameters here.
So, the final bit is getting the jobs right.
So let's create another method here, the jobs,
now there's a multiple of them with the jobs.
So with the jobs, I need to combine them together into an array.
So I'm going to take those jobs, I'm going to use the Java 8 streams API.
So that is going to say --- I'm just going to do that to begin with,
and then at the end I need to combine these different job strings.
So I'm going to use the joining collector here.
I need to statically import.
Now this takes a few arguments.
The first one is going to be the new line character and a comma
to separate out the different jobs value.
The next one is going to be a square bracket,
for the beginning of the array, that's the prefix.
And finally, it's the suffix, which is just going to be a new line character,
a couple of spaces, and another square bracket at the end.
Now, let's try and implement this one by hand.
Now I've kind of skipped over it for both of the other two.
I'll just paste in the format strings,
but for this one I'm going to do it by hand just to show
you how fiddley this whole process is.
So I've got to get the right number of spaces here.
And then I'm going to put a brace at the beginning and at the end.
I've got to get the new line character right if I want to keep
things nice and human readable as they should be with JSON
because that's one of its advantages here.
Then,
I need to add in these escaped double quotation marks because
I'm creating a string within a string in Java.
And otherwise, the JSON will be invalid.
Now, I've got a bunch of different values here,
so I've got a title, an annual income, the number of years active for the job.
Now,
I pass in different format strings here so %s is when I want to print a string.
Now the annualIncome is a floating point number, so that will be %g.
And finally, %d for an integer.
Now once I've done all these things, got the lines right,
got the commas right, all the rest of it,
I need to pass the values in the format string,
so getTitle, getAnnualIncome, and finally,
getYearsActive.
I also need to remember, for example,
to remove that comma at the end because it's an invalid JSON format string here.
So if I just left that one comma in, I would've produced invalid JSON.
In fact, if I run this code, let's see if I even produce correct JSON.
Well, I have in my case, but look back at how much work we had to do,
and that was mostly copying and pasting code just in
order to get this mainly formatted out.
We've got about 40 lines of code just to format this simple thing here.
Very time consuming.
A lot of work to maintain, a lot of work to implement to begin with,
and very error prone.
So if I were to say just removing one of those fields,
so say I want to remove the jobs array from here,
I have to remove that, I then need to remove that method call there,
but I also need to do things like remember to add that comma up there or
I need to be very careful with what we're doing here.
Any small typo in these strings can cause an error in the code that's
actually producing the JSON that's actually produced.
And here I've added little indents just to make sure the indent lines up,
but that isn't really composable.
Okay, so what did that demo teach us?
Well first, that writing JSON was very error prone.
We accidently produced invalid JSON a couple of times.
Any typo, no matter how small in your code, can easily produce invalid JSON.
And it's pretty hard to understand where the code is
correct just from reading the source.
It's also pretty time consuming.
It took us a while to implement even this simple example.
Every time you want to serialize a new JSON object down the wire,
you'll need to write some code to serialize it.
And finally, for the same reason, it's pretty hard to maintain.
It takes a lot of time just to update the serialization code.
You need to keep it in sync with any changes to your communication protocol
and take care when testing what is produced and received.
Don't worry, this doesn't make JSON useless.
It just requires that we take a different approach.
In fact, we're going to take two different approaches in this module, a generator API and a binding API.